Biology is the only science in which multiplication means the same
thing as division.

Douglas Adams, "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy"

=====================================================================================

But Christable was beginning to learn a scary thing
about grown-ups. Sometimes they said things would
be all right,but they didn't know they'd be all right.
They just said it. Bad things could happen to kids.
Especially to little kids.

From Otherland

=====================================================================================

Für mich ist Denkmal ein lebenslanger Imperativ,
der aus zwei Wörtern besteht.
-- Fritz Grünbaum

=====================================================================================

Fortune:
--------
Friends may come and go, but enemies accumulate.
                -- Thomas Jones

=====================================================================================

Reporter (to Mahadma Gandhi): Mr Gandhi, what do you think of werstern civilization?
Gandhi: I think it would be a good idea.

=====================================================================================

A man is not complete until he is married -- then he is finished.

=====================================================================================

It's been Monday all week today.

=====================================================================================

A right is not what someone gives you; it's what no one can take from you.
-- Ramsey Clark

=====================================================================================

Fortune:
--------
swallow, v.:
        The (blew) bird of birth control.

=====================================================================================

There are two ways of constructing a software design: One way is to make it so simple
that there are obviously no deficiencies, and the other way is to make it so
complicated that there are no obvious deficiencies. The first method is far more
difficult. -- Charles Antony Richard Hoare


=====================================================================================

Things are more like they used to be than they are now.

=====================================================================================

Fortune:
--------
Worrying is like rocking in a rocking chair -- It gives you something to do,
but it doesn't get you anywhere.

=====================================================================================

