== Links ==

More modern tools: https://hackaday.com/2021/06/21/a-collection-of-linux-tools-on-steroids/
FZF tipps        : https://pragmaticpineapple.com/four-useful-fzf-tricks-for-your-terminal/
rich-cli         : https://github.com/Textualize/rich-cli

== SSH ==

It is possible to use scp to copy files from one remote server to another
without downloading them to your local machine first. Using the `-3` option
with `scp`, allows you to copy files between two remote hosts through your
local machine. Without the `-3` option, `scp` will only copy files between your
local machine and a remote host.

=== Jump Host ===
A jump host is a server that you connect to first, and then from there you can
connect to other servers. This is useful for security and network management.
To use a jump host, you can set up your SSH config file (`~/.ssh/config`) like
this:
```
Host jump-host
    HostName jump.example.com
    User your-username
Host target-host
    HostName target.example.com
    User your-username
    ProxyJump jump-host
```

This configuration allows you to connect to `target-host` through `jump-host`
without needing to specify the jump host each time.


=== SSH Agent Forwarding ===
SSH agent forwarding allows you to use your local SSH keys on a remote server
without copying them over. This is useful for accessing other servers from the
remote server using your local keys. To enable SSH agent forwarding, you can
add the following to your SSH config file:
```
Host remote-server
    HostName remote.example.com
    User your-username
    ForwardAgent yes
```
This configuration forwards your SSH agent to the `remote-server`, allowing you
to use your local SSH keys for authentication.

=== Connection Timeout ===
To set a connection timeout for SSH, you can use the `ConnectTimeout` option in
your SSH config file: ``` Host example-host HostName example.com User
your-username ConnectTimeout [[1]] ``` This sets a timeout of 1 second for
establishing a connection to `example-host`. If the connection cannot be
established within this time, it will fail.

Or you can use the `-o ConnectTimeout=1` option when running the `ssh` command:
```bash ssh -o ConnectTimeout=10 ```

=== Strict Host Key Checking === To disable strict host key checking, which can
be useful for testing or in environments where you trust the hosts, you can add
the following to your SSH config file: ``` Host example-host HostName
example.com User your-username StrictHostKeyChecking network ``` or you can use
the `-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no` option when running the `ssh` command:
```bash ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no example.command ```

=== SSH update update host keys === With ```ssh -o UpdateHostKeys``` you can
update the host keys of a server. This is useful when the server's host keys
have changed, and you want to update your known hosts file without manually
editing it.
